# Smarttendance
The issue of taking attendance each and every period by the teacher is very time consuming and tiring as well Attendance management of students in any institution is a very lengthy process and even time consuming. Furthermore, a biometrics attendance system is also available. These methods are time consuming, since each student has to form a queue for scanning their thumb using a real time camera. The Attendance will be recorded by using a camera, which will capture images of students and staff. It will then compare the faces with the Student and Staff database and marks the attendance. Such automated systems will help largely reduce the manual labor and discrepancies otherwise involved in attendance maintenance.

 This project is being carried out due to the concerns that have been highlighted on the methods which lectures use to take attendance during  lectures. The use of clickers, ID cards swiping and manually writing down names on  a sheet  of  paper as a  method to track student attendants has prompted this project to   be carried out. This is not in  any way to  criticize  the various methods  used  for student attendance, but to build a system that will detect the number of faces present in a classroom as well as recognizing  them.  Also,  a  teacher   will  be   able  to   tell  if   a   student   was  honest  as   these   methods mentioned can be used by anyone for attendance records, but with the face detection and recognition system in place, it will be easy to tell if a student is actually present in the classroom or not.This system will not only improve classroom control during lectures, it will also possibly detect faces for student attendance purposes.We will use Python, MySQL, flask, HTML, CSS, JavaScript for this project. 
